Okay, so I've just gone and recorded a vocal. It's very rubbish. I am by no means a singer.
But I wanted to give you a perspective in that even if you can't sing that well, you
can still open the mic, record something and make it fit in and create something unique,
you know. So let me quickly play you I recorded do not judge because I'm not a
singer. So lots of that kind of stuff, no lyrics. Sounds like a dying animal. So I've
got a few things here I can utilize. When I was playing the tune and I was
recording, I also did like a breath kind of thing to set the tone. So let me put
that at the intro first. Let's see how we get along with that. Sounds a bit cheesy,
but let's maybe turn this into like some kind of impact. Let's maybe do it here instead. So I'm
going to use some reverb. Let's use the Halla Shimmer, which is great. Just going to put it
like I'm just going to put the reverb on almost 100% I think. I don't need Melodyne on that one.
Just take some low end out of it.
That's cool. It really fits the scene. Right, let's try and write happy with that so far.
Might put that at the start.
Right, so let's try one of my dying animal suffering vocals.
Kind of really sounds in tune, surprisingly. So what I'm going to do is I've got Melodyne
loaded up on this channel and what I want to do is just going to focus on this one for now.
So if you haven't used Melodyne, Melodyne is basically a tool which helps you correctly tune
vocals and you transfer in and then you can select what notes the vocals are hitting.
And because we already know our scale, F harmonic minor, it makes our life a lot easier.
So I'm going to transfer this in.
Didn't hit transfer. Let's do that again.
Pick your pardon. Third time lucky.
Cool. Let's work on this one. So let me record that in again.
If you bet with me a second, I'm going to restart Melodyne.
Great. Let's transfer this in.
There we go. So you can see I start on F sharp, which isn't right. So I can do it, can select
these and then I can physically correct the pitch center. So as you can see, they shift.
So listen. Sounds a bit better. Great. So now what I can do is I can freeze this track.
I know the pitch is good.
And now if I just drop this audiophile, it will copy whatever I'm working.
Cool. So let's try and get this sounding good.
So I'm just going to move over a bit.
Cool. Let's take some low end out. Let's add some reverb and a bit of vocal processing.
If you've got something like isotope nectar, they'll work great. You just want to add some
saturation, some reverbs and delay. I kind of want to make this, kind of want to turn this
into like a pad, but I still want the listener to hear that it's a vocal. So I'm going to
add a little bit of distortion actually, see what happens. Just a mild isotope trash, something
like clip control setting.
Okay, too much distortion.
Cool. That sounds great. It's also got some really cool high end to it for some reason.
It's like, I really like that. Sounds like rain.
The last bit is terrible.
Cool. That's very cool. So again, we can go a bit crazy with this. We can add some modulation.
Another thing we could do is let's duplicate this.
Let's pitch it down 12.
Gonna have more function. See what happens with this.
Cool. Quite like that. So now what I'm going to try and do is I'm going to go back into
melody. I've got this here. Let's unfreeze this track. Right, so we know our scale. Let's see
if I can make a harmony. So if I go C, C sharp. Sounds terrible.
Right, there's a bit of kind of distortion going on, but I'm just going to look over that for now.
So what I'm going to do next is let's again flatten this.
And then I'm going to put this on a separate channel. So I've got that there.
And then after that I am going to process the rest of the vocals just as I've done like this.
So let me create a new audio channel. Drag this there.
Oops, I think I, cool.
So I'm going to use the same plugins. You could also set up a groove for this.
So lots of distortion.
Right, I think I'm going to remove the saturation on every one. It's getting a little bit too distorted for me.
I'm going to put these in a group. So if you're using any other DAW, you can use sends for this.
Or you can put them in patch if you're using FL or something.
I want to add some chorus to the whole thing.
It's kind of giving me that 80s vibe, you know.
Right, cool. I'm really happy with that.
Maybe the placing is not correct, but we can fix that in a second.
I think I'm going to start these here.
Let's check this chorus.
It gives a lot of stereo width, which is good.
Cool.
Right, so offline.
I am going to go through the rest of these audio files, put them in Melodyne, and then I'll be back to you in a second.
Okay, so I've taken a couple of clips of my terrible singing, put them in Melodyne, which has improved it a little bit.
A couple of the vocals aren't Melodyne that great like this.
It still doesn't sound great, but I think we can live with that, especially for this type.
If I was singing words, which I probably wouldn't be able to do anyway, then it would be a lot different.
So I've got my vocal group going to call this Vocals.
Let's see if we can get these to work as well.
Let's dump this into the vocals and what I'm also going to do instead of using different reverbs on different channels.
I'm just going to put this on the group for now.
So let's take the reverbs off, save me a bit of CPU.
Great.
I want to take the chorus off, I'm not a big fan of it.
That last bit sounds great, you know.
Let's see how that sounds in the tune.
Cool.
Let's see, I've got a second one here.
You can kind of hear this auto-tuney thing.
That kind of improves it, maybe we can use the breath instead just to kind of mask it.
Cool.
Check the second one now.
I can't really hear it.
Let me turn the audio file up.
Not sure what that big peak is.
Okay, I'm just saying like you know or something.
I think it should, it should jotch there like that, something.
Let's see if we can get this to work.
Cool, I think that is going to work.
So this is a really easy way to make unique tunes.
I mean no one, no one is going to have this sample, you've literally just recorded it and even if you can't sing please just give it a go.
I was always really scared to do it and then I did it a couple of times and it worked out great.
So for stuff like this it's literally perfect.
Right, so let's get a bit organized.
This is my breath here.
So I'm going to also take the reverb off that and put this into the vocals group.
Cool, so let's have a little listen.
Nice.
So I'm listening and organizing at the same time.
Cool, I'm really happy with that so far.
What I want to do next is try and work on this part and this is the part where I want to make a switch.
I want to be able to tell the listener something evil and then energetic is coming here.
So I want some energy, I want it to be dark, I want some kind of tension in that.
So let's have a look.
There is a possibility to use the bass from the actual tune when we go and ride that in a second in this section.
So it might be worth putting a few ideas together first and seeing what we could do from there.
Firstly, I just want to put some placeholders down for myself.
So I've got my idea in my head.
I know I want to switch it here and make it very intense and lots of tension because I want to paint a picture for what's coming next, i.e. the drop.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to quickly run through my samples with you and see if we can find some really tension-based strings or something.
I might be able to use them as a placeholder.
So again, this is my small sample library from sounds I've made all over the place.
This might be cool.
So loud.
Might work, be underwhelming.
Leave it in there for now.
Horror pad. That sounds right.
Okay, that's way too detuned.
Just going to quickly flick through these to see if we can find something.
Maybe that might change it. See, I know it's D-sharp, so D-sharp, E, F.
Okay, let's turn this menacing sound.
Definitely add something.
I think I'm going to take the reset as well because we might switch it from there.
Not sure about.
Not sure about this sound either.
Oh, maybe we could actually use the breath on here as well. Now I'm hearing that.
Cool.
See what else we've got.
These are the ones we already used in the intro.
Hey, this might be good.
Rise that style.
Let's go with that. Perfect.
Cool.
I know something's coming now, you know?
But we need some elements from the drop to make it familiar to the listener.
So when the listener hears the drop, it's not just sounds coming out of nowhere
which they haven't been suggested before.
That is also a cool way of doing things, but I think in this instance
we want to suggest what's coming next.
Cool.
So I think the next stage for us to do is try and construct some beats.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to group all these together.
And I'm going to call these intro sounds or just let's call it just intro.
And I've got these ready to roll.
So now I'm going to move on to the drop.
And also I'm going to first talk a little bit about how my project file is set up.
Cool.
So I'll be back with you in a second.
