Cool. So now we're going to go about building the drop.
But first, I wanted to show you what my project template looks like.
When I open a new project in Ableton,
I have these four groups and channels or channels set up automatically.
One is called Kick SC Trigger.
The SC stands for Sidechain.
I've already got a kick group set up
with a serum in there.
And this is one of the kicks.
I just loaded one of the kicks, which we made earlier in that.
I've also got a snare set up in there.
A lot of the times I won't use this now.
I'll just make a new one.
But this is one of the ones we made earlier.
And I've just added some additional bits to it.
So.
What I like to use for my sidechain
is I like to have a group set up and I like to use LFO tool.
So LFO tool.
The way I've set up is it works whenever
whenever a MIDI file from these
these channels are triggered, it will initiate the LFO tool to duck down
the salad, so very exactly the same way as a sidechain.
But because it's an LFO tool, I've got a lot more control.
I can make this a lot steeper, for example, a lot more flexibility.
I know with general compression, you can use your attack and release,
obviously, but this way I've found very, very useful over the over
the last couple of months.
So every time.
This is triggered, so I've just got a very simple kick and snap in it.
Every time that's triggered, it will
trigger the LFO to turn the volume down.
And I've got this sidechain set up on a sidechain group so I can load my bases
in there and they'll automatically be sidechained.
But it does it does determine where you put these MIDI files.
Make a bit more sense as we go along.
The other thing to quickly point out is I have a maximizer
on my output, no particular settings here, nothing too fancy.
I've also got a utility.
What I like to do is give myself a little headroom.
There's a couple of ways you can do this.
You can turn the volume down of each channels or the groups.
What I have always done, not necessarily the right way to go
about this, is I just put the utility before the master and I'll just turn
it down five decibels, so I give myself a little headroom.
I don't want to be writing the tune
and blasting everything into the limiter straight away.
This part of the tune I like to really focus on later, when I'm writing the
tune, I like to kind of have a little like kind of free palette.
I don't want to get too bogged down with engineering too much.
So
so, yeah, I just leave this like this and try not to pay too much attention to it.
Yeah.
Cool. So let's go ahead and start constructing
some things for the drop.
I'm going to mute these vocals.
And I'm going to start at bar 49.
Cool. So let's make
some drum and bass.
Cool. So let's start with a kick.
We know the tune is in F.
Cool.
All right. So the first thing we want to do is make a very simple beat.
Let me arrange these MIDI files because they're looping.
I'm also going to make these a bit longer.
Cool.
Change this to one bar and I'm just going to loop this.
Cool.
Now let's do my kick.
Sorry, let's do my snare.
This might not be the snare that I use, but
what I want to do is get this down and then I can start writing.
OK, that's obviously a very low snare.
So in terms of tuning your drums, as you can see, I put the snare on F.
So the kick and snare are both on F, but I don't always like to do that.
So what I can do is choose like a C maybe, which I know is in scale to my tune
because I've already looked at that before.
Cool.
So now what I want to do is start adding obviously some hi-hats
or some kind of shaker kind of things.
So I'm going to add an audio file.
And what I'm going to do is just quickly rinse through my samples.
So
in this stage of the tune, I don't want to spend too much time engineering.
I want to be able to put some samples in there and have an idea very quickly.
I'm just going to reach for my hi-hats.
These are all hi-hats I've made from making drums.
So like we did previously, make lots
of different drums and then I'll export all the hi-hat loops and put them in a
folder, so I've got stuff like this.
I want to go for something a bit techy, you know.
So I want something short.
Listen.
So that could work.
That's cool.
Not bad.
These are cool, actually.
I actually made these sounds.
So when I prepare for my DJ sets,
obviously use Rekordbox, which is a library to organize your
tunes on USB so they work in connection with the CDJ and other brands.
And what I do is when I add my markers on Rekordbox, I'm constantly pulling
the audio file back and forward and it always makes these crazy sounds.
So like 10 minutes I've just recorded me shifting tunes, my own tunes.
And then what I did,
I put a 1-16 filter over them.
So it's just like that and you get some really random sounds.
Crazy sounds.
So let's see if we can use those.
I'm just going to loop one bar for now.
And also
what I'm going to do is not using that.
I'm going to put my intro at the top.
So I've got a bit more room to operate.
So one thing I like to do is keep my snares and kicks free.
So my snare is here and that's clashing with this sound.
So I'm simply going to cut it up, put a fade in and a fade out.
I'm not sure about the placement.
Not sure about that sound just yet.
This is also on the kick as well.
So let's get rid of that.
I can probably remove the fade in now.
Quite a lot of low end in that.
Let's go a bit easier on that.
Better.
Let's add some more bits.
Bongo's.
These are cool.
Quite loud.
I'm just going to stick another hi-hat in the middle from here, just to
help us.
Actually, let's extend this out and see what we've got.
So again, even on the hi-hats, I'm going to put fade ins.
I'm going to leave this free for now.
I'm not sure this is great yet, but we'll keep going.
Quite like that.
If there was some complementary hi-hat after that would be good.
Let's add some little bits.
This is cool.
This might work.
OK, that's working cool.
That section.
You can already see I've cut the hi-hat out on the snare.
This would have come from an old tune, which I never finished probably,
but not on the kick.
I'm not sure about this start now.
Let's add another little section here, see what happens.
That sounds quite cool, actually.
Add another little section here and another little section there.
So I'm just jamming away now.
So now what I'm going to do is I'm going to go...
What I want to hear is some kind of faster percussion elements in there.
So I'm just going to go through some of my breaks, really, and see if I can
find something.
I like the hi-hats on that one.
So.
I've also got this project file saved, and if I wanted to, I could go in there,
but I've got the audio file, so I may as well utilize it.
I can just take the kick out.
And because I made all these sounds
myself, there's a big chance that they're all just going to just going to sound
very similar and kind of gel with each other.
So let's get rid of that.
We do not want that kick.
Do not want that sound.
I'm putting a big fade on the snare.
I might change that later, though.
Some click somewhere.
See how this sounds.
Not bad.
Still sounds very synthetic to me.
Cool.
So let's quickly go and have a look at this kick.
How is this?
Could be improved, I think.
So let's try and exaggerate the transient.
Probably want to make it a bit shorter as well.
Let's try that.
Cool.
There is a tiny little hit before the kick here, which kind of
which kind of puts me off a little bit.
I think this might work.
I'm going to leave it muted for now.
I might come back to that later.
Cool. So I'm just listening,
analyzing everything, trying to think what could I improve?
The snare could be a lot better.
Let's see if we can improve that.
So I've got a little clap there, a bit too much for me, so I'm going to get
rid of that.
This is my transient and fundamental layer.
Let's see if I can improve that just by offsetting, maybe.
Also take the attack off.
So this is the white noise layer.
I'm just going to shorten this up.
I've made it longer.
Maybe that sounds even better.
See, this is the perfect example of why
making your own sounds
gives you such creativity and
it enables you to literally fine tune everything to how you want it.
So I can make that literally the tail if I wanted.
If I wanted to go for that, perfect.
I think we should go for something a bit more fine for this tune.
Let's see what it sounds like.
Also cool.
That sounds dope.
Cool.
So let's now.
We've got a rough
template for a drum set out, going to group all the hi-hats and obviously
call them hats.
Oh, that's not how you spell hats.
I'm going to bring my side chain down and I'm going to group all these now
and call them.
I'm going to group the side chain as well.
So I'm going to call these drums.
Nice.
Alright, so the next thing I wanted to do
is start adding some interesting bass sounds, which we made earlier.
So let's get into that.
Not sure why that duplicated, probably my fault.
Cool. So in my user library,
I have all the bass sounds which we
made in the previous videos.
So let's go through them.
So obviously way too loud
and it doesn't sound like the side chain is working.
Or is it? Let's check.
I don't think it is.
Why isn't it working?
Okay, give me a sec and I'll just try and find out what I'm doing wrong here.
And I'll be back to you in a sec.
Okay, so I found out what it was.
Schoolboy error.
My actual side chain triggers weren't turned on.
So these are my MIDI files.
So if I put them here, just play them without them.
And then I'll put them back on.
There you go.
Cool.
So let's go writing some tunes.
Cool.
So I kind of like that, but I don't like the hi-hat shuffles on this part.
So maybe we can just do it rather than
a really fast edit here.
Perfect.
Right. So now I want some open hi-hat on there.
So I'm going to go back into my.
I'm going to add a new
track into my hi-hats and let's quickly get an open hi-hat from one of my.
Maybe that will be good.
Oh, kind of cool.
These, I think this is these.
But sure.
Cool.
Right. That's a good stop.
Just double check with that intro.
How we're doing.
Cool thing that's going to work good.
Cool. Yeah, I think that might work.
Cool. I'm going to leave the intro on for now.
Let's get rid of these bits in the engine.
What's making that sound?
OK, drone sound.
So as you notice, and it might be a little frustrating for you,
I have a habit when I want to analyze something.
I literally
press spacebar a lot because I'm just trying to re-trigger it.
So I'll try and do that less if that's annoying.
I want to check the harmonics here.
That's an A, which isn't in scale.
Might be able to change that.
How did we do this again?
Is it with this?
OK, there's a massive A coming somewhere.
Is it in the effects? No.
OK, a little bit less resonant sounds cool.
OK, the peak is coming from the FM.
I should have remembered this.
I only made them yesterday.
So let's see if we can change that.
So.
I'm going to
put another macro.
Oh, that sounds a bit more
C, absolutely
perfect.
We know that's in scale.
And if I put this on the intro now, it should sound very good.
That sounds very in tune.
Maybe.
We could have this here.
So what I'm thinking is.
And then to do to do to do.
So let's go and do that.
So another thing I want to mention to you guys is I'm quite
I have a quite short attention span with working on some things.
If I get an idea, I'll go and do it.
So we were working on the drop,
but I dropped that into the breakdown here or the build up,
if you want to call that.
And I heard something in my head.
And when I heard that, I instead of leaving it to later, I was going to do it
there and then so I think we can make something like this on the fly.
So I'm going to open serum.
That's obviously an audio track.
Apologies.
Cool, let's put this in the side chain.
So I'm going to loop this and get my patent to do to do and then.
I think it's this.
Cool.
Right, we need to turn this into a baseline.
So.
How are we going to do that?
Let's see if we can use an existing table, which we used before,
which one to be used, the dirt
digital.
This one, I think, or no, it was the distorted bass dropper.
Cool, let's go one up, two down.
Oh, almost there.
Hey, that sounds cool.
So, let's I'm just following my instinct here.
Cool, that's going to be good.
Let's turn the random off as well.
I keep forgetting that goes.
Cool, let's add some distortion.
Let's try something over the top.
Let's have a bit of fun, you know.
Too much.
Might work.
Oh, that sounds good.
Not too much.
See how that sounds in the mix, should we?
I'm not sure the pitching's right.
Let's try and improve this.
I just want to add a bit more.
Let's keep the phase as it was.
See what happens if we automate the FM.
It might sound a bit crackly and stuff.
Oh, cool.
Put it to one bar.
Not bad.
Feels like I'm losing a lot of sub bass for some reason.
And I think that's because
that peak is so high.
Let's turn this down a bit.
It's had a bit of white noise as well.
Cool.
Right, now let's go back to our
and drop and see, let's see if we can fit this in, shall we?
So.
OK, I could put this on here.
Or I could try and make it a bit funky.
OK, let's try and make a cooler melody out of this.
Not bad.
Cool, a bit underwhelmed by that sound now.
Leave it in there for now.
Let's add a few more of our bass sounds, which we made.
So what was number two?
Kind of forgotten what sounds we made now, but they'll come back to me.
Oops, let's drag that over.
What do we do here?
This could be interesting.
F, D.
Let's try E, C.
Let's see what happens if we do this.
Kind of cool.
Let's go one.
I'm going to make this a bit shorter.
That release is really annoying me.
See if I can fix that.
I quite like this sound and kind of the how it's working with the drums,
but to me, it sounds like a sound which would be at the end of like every eight
bars or every four bars, for example.
So I'm going to try and work it for now.
And if not, I'm going to leave it in there so we can fit it in later.
The goal for me now is to try and fix this.
This kind of release thing, I remember this bass.
It was like a big peak in there, wasn't there?
Yeah.
Let's see what this sounds like.
I want to go higher.
Let's try something like this.
That's cool.
Again, the release is annoying the hell out of me.
So I am going to do a workaround.
This isn't fixing it, but it's definitely a workaround.
I'm going to use the utility
and I'm going to
just turn it down just here.
Done.
I think the sound is cool, but I think it sounds so static.
And the goal was to make something techy and funky.
So this kind of just goes, no, no, no, like that.
And I'm wondering if we can maybe add some cool LFO to it.
Let's give it a go.
No, don't like that.
I'm going to change it.
I'm going to change it.
I'm going to change the fine tuning.
Remember, this also relates to
how quickly it phases.
So it gives that kind of one, one, one LFO feeling.
Let's see if I can go really fast.
I think that might be better.
The objective was to go faster,
but I've gone slower and it may be sounding cooler.
I want to make it shorter.
I just want that.
I think I wanted to stop here.
Let's just try and use the utility for now.
And then we will shorten this up.
Oops.
I'm not sure.
And this, guys, is where
you follow your own personal preference.
I'm sure there'll be lots of you watching this thinking,
oh, I would have done it this way.
And that's cool because
and that's cool because everyone has their own
interpretation of what should things sound like.
And you guys should really follow your instinct on that.
OK, cool. I'm going to roll with that for now.
Let's see
if these work now.
I like the placement of that sound isn't great.
Cool. So that's really cool.
So the first two bass sounds we've made,
one and two in our previous sessions are just clicking in and working straight away.
So happy about that so far.
Let's add some more.
We've already used the intro res, so that's kind of cool.
We used one, two, three for now.
Let's go with four.
What do we have here?
Oh,
maybe this is a better answer.
In the same scale as well.
Oh, lots of options here.
Too many.
Oh,
that is not bad.
Keep hearing this.
Do, do, do, do, do, do, do a lot.
Let's see, can we get it to work?
Right, so I'm extending the loop.
Two bars have to be done.
Now's the time.
Let's go.
What did I do there?
It's not bad.
Must be how to improve this.
Let's add firstly, some like pitch and let's try and treat it like a kick.
So it's got
so it's a bit more punchy.
So I'm going to use LFO four assigned to the master tune.
Just like we do with a kick and snap
trigger.
They go.
Let's also
add this to it.
Cool, that's much better.
Let's remove this warp.
Do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do.
Right, I hear in my head, I'll try and sing it.
I know my singing is terrible, which you've already found out.
But let's
let me try and sing it for you.
No, no,
do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do.
So let's grab
one of our sounds, which we made earlier.
Use a library.
There was a cool reason here somewhere.
Cool.
This might do the do the job.
Just have a quick clean up.
I'm going to duplicate all the drums for now.
Did it work out?
Oh, it did work out.
Good.
Cool.
So that's the melody I had in my head, but it's quite underwhelming.
Let's see if we put one of those vocals in there,
see what that sounds like, shall we?
Where were we?
OK, let's try this, shall we?
Awesome.
OK, that's going to work great.
And guys, putting that vocal over that bit is a direct result of working in a
mode, in a scale, so we we know the keys and the and the notes we want to use
and we know they're musically correct because they fit in a scale.
So literally, any if I put anything in from the intro now,
I mean, it should work up.
There we go, see?
And this is a really fun way to write.
So let's utilize what we've got.
So I'm going to want to take all the reverb off this.
I could just make a render with the reverb.
What's the best way?
I think I'll do that. Yeah.
And also a bit of annoying thing,
I'll have to take out of the group, because if you remember,
we put the reverb on the group, that's no problem.
Let's get rid of that.
Wow, sounds terrible.
What does this sound like?
Maybe we should mute this one.
Right, I'm going to make a render with that reverb and cut it short.
So let's do that.
Let's use the resampling function in Ableton.
Just cut a lot of that low end out.
A bit much tighter, but not amazing.
Where did my arp go?
I think I want to take this section, to be honest.
Let's have a little look.
Nice.
So basically, what I've written here now
is my sketch.
So I've got the idea, got the basic idea, the basic structure, basic intro.
I'm all in scale because I wrote with the purpose of being in scale.
Now what I'm going to do is when I get to this stage,
I like to take a little 10 minute break.
I'll get some fresh air, go for a quick walk.
I'll come back and we'll deconstruct what doesn't sound good,
what doesn't fit, and then we'll build out the tune.
Another important thing which we need to do is this build up here.
I also loved the sound of this on the intro.
Maybe again.
Let's duplicate that.
See how it drops? Exciting.
OK, so let's get back to it.
I took a little break, so I'm going to quickly listen to it again.
Cool. So what needs improvement?
I can build out the rest of the tune now, but I think I've got enough.
In this section here, in these two bars, to try and improve a few things.
One thing I don't like is the drums yet.
There's not much energy in the drums,
so I'm going to go and try and improve those.
Let's just isolate those for a sec.
I think the kick could be better.
Let's try and improve this kick.
So.
I'm going to try and change the tuning of this to see.
It's in scale.
Let's have a little listen.
I like that much better, actually.
I might change this one back to F.
I want to kind of create a variation.
I like that a lot, actually.
I mean, if you listen to any real life drummer,
the you know, the kick's always not going to be the same, so.
What I will do, though, is I will split this up
so the lower kicks can have their own channel.
I'm going to rename this kick
I'm going to rename this kick F.
And this one kick C.
Let's remove that first F.
Sounding a lot better.
A lot higher.
So one thing I might try is putting a little bit of saturation
on the whole drums.
So I just want to kind of push them a little harder, to be honest.
So I'm going to use a wave shaper.
Let's see.
So it just kind of pushes them a little bit.
It gives them a little more energy to the mix.
This kick's distorting a bit now.
I wonder if I can fix that.
The kick is getting a bit lost.
Why is it getting a bit lost?
Is it because of these?
Okay, what I'm going to do is I'm going
to kind of put a manual side chain on these things.
That's better.
So I'll just copy these over.
Small details now, but what I want to do is have this set up.
So when I copy this all over and actually build out my tune,
everything's correct already. In Ableton, it's a bit awkward
because you can't put fade ins on multiple files.
You just have to copy them over.
So my workflow for Ableton is to make sure I've got everything
kind of as good as it can be and then move on from there.
So let me try and bring back some of these
percussion kind of sound.
This might work.
The drums are close, but they're still not, still not exactly what I want to hear.
So now I'm just going to loop this.
I'm sure, I'm sure we all know,
we all know this,
this process, it's looping and looping and looping and just trying to improve
certain things and trying to improve certain things too.
You go absolutely insane in your head.
So you're going to have to bear with me a little bit.
I need to.
Just put these together.
Let's get a bit organized here.
It's an open hi-hat cymbal kind of thing at the top.
Can't be low end out of these shuffles as well.
Let's try it without the glitchy sounds.
Sounds cleaner. Let's see what this sounds like.
I like that much better.
Cleaner.
More energy.
That's without as well.
Right, there's one thing I want to mention about these shuffles
and just shuffles in general.
We talked about it when we were making the drums.
And one of the coolest things I like to do with shuffles is literally just
put them off time.
A drummer in real life will never play hits exactly on grid.
So it's good to try and keep a bit of funk in there.
So this is the hi-hat loop.
And what I'm going to do is just follow this basically.
What's this? I wonder if that sounds good as well.
We muted that earlier.
I'm just going to review it again.
If you notice, that's
so far off the grid, but it gives a lot of funk.
Let's see.
Cool. Liking that.
I think we should keep that in.
Let me clean up this.
So I'm going to listen to these hi-hats again, the first ones we put in.
And if I don't like them this time, they're getting dumped.
Good work.
Gives it a
gives a very acoustic feeling, which I like.
I quite like that.
It gives it a very open acoustic feeling.
Let's see if we can make these work.
I don't want to layer too much on top of each other.
All right. One thing I'm going to get rid of is our glitchy record box things.
If I need them, I'm going to come back to them later.
Sounds weird.
OK, I just want to make sure these are all.
I like that a lot, but it's a bit too loud.
I think
I think I'm also going to take the attack off these hi-hats.
I mean, I've got
I like the fade in.
I like the fade ins.
It gives it a kind of off beat feel,
which is cool.
Right, let's turn these down.
Right, that's sounding a lot better to me, a lot more energetic.
Still something going on with the high end here.
Let's just remove that low end.
I think something going on a bit crazy here.
I'm just going to take that out.
Cool, let's check these.
Lots of low end in this, I can hear.
Let's put these up there, play these hi-hats together.
Cool, they work.
Let's mute these and see if we can do without them.
Don't think we can.
In this area here, it just gets a bit messy all of a sudden.
I want to try and find out why.
