Okay, so let's talk about making bass sounds. So what I like to do a lot is I like to make
sessions for myself where I just make bass lines. I'll make all different types. Sometimes
I'll have a general idea about what I want to make or sometimes I'll just open up
Serum and just see where the sound develops. And what I like to do is I like to do these
isolated sessions. What do I mean with that is instead of actually working on bass lines
in a tune, what I'll do is I'll make, for instance, I'll spend three days making like
literally a hundred presets for myself. There will be a few in there which won't cut the
speak. But I guarantee that if you do spend a couple of days just isolating yourself and
just making bass sounds, then you'll definitely make something very unique in that process.
So what I want to do is I want to set myself up. So after this session,
I'm going to basically write a tune, put an idea together. So I want to be able to use these
bass sounds that I'm going to make now and try and fit them in a tune. So I'm going to
try a few different approaches. The first approach, what I'm going to do is I'm going
to try and make a kind of reese sounding bass. There's a couple of ways you can do
this. So I'm going to go through them. So what I like to use is serum. I used to use FM8 a lot,
but serum is kind of my go-to synth now. So with reeses, there's tons and tons of
different ways you can make them. But I'm going to do really the classic kind of reese
way. Just before I start going ahead and doing this, I just want to say I haven't planned anything
here and there's a reason why. It's because I really wanted to give you guys and show you a
kind of insight about how you should be doing it as well at home or in your studio. I mean,
it's all well and good me just loading up a couple of presets that I've already made,
but I really wanted to take you on that journey and that process on how you kind of work with
raw sound and turn it into something that will fit into a tune and that's got weight and
interest. Cool. So let me just get this set up. What I'm going to do is actually use
saw waves. Now, this is kind of a really classic way of making a reese. I'm going to actually use
phase to create an interesting sound. So I've loaded two saw waves up and as I mentioned
before, like with making kicks and snares, I always want to have this random phase set to
zero. I want to be able to control where they start and that'll make a bit more sense in a
second. So if I just play this, you can hear it sounds very static. It's got a nice warm,
familiar harmonic distribution about it because it's a saw wave. I'm more familiar with that,
but it's very static. Just so what I want to do is try and create some movement in there
and I can do that by actually detuning the saw waves. So I'm going to show you a quick
example of how this works. So I'm just going to use Ableton's resample function to record this
in. Why isn't that working? Oh, sorry. I'm actually recording on the channel. Okay, cool.
I want this one resample.
Right, so if we look at this waveform, you can actually see it's a saw
and it's literally just static. So there's no movement. You can see no movement in the
waveform. So I'm just going to put this over here for now. Now, if I start to just detune
each one, and what I mean with that is literally physically change the tuning.
And when I mean change the tuning, I don't mean like a semitone. I mean just fine tuning.
So if we start changing this, let me actually play the serum.
Now let's record that back in again and see the difference.
So if we zoom in, you can see here it's like almost getting louder and softer. And why is
that? It's literally because we've phased them. So what do I mean by that? So let me give you
a quick example with this audio file. I'm going to take this audio file.
I'm going to duplicate this audio file. And if I play them together, it will literally double
the sound. So if I just solo those so you can hear they're both exactly the same audio file.
Now, if I take this and then I flip it, flip the phase around, so that point would literally
be there. What is going to happen? So I'm just going to do that with the utility,
which is here. So if I flip the phase around, you can see something's happening,
but we have no sound. Now, why is that? So this is to do with the physical nature of how
actual speakers work. So on this line, what you're seeing here, that's a middle ground.
And if you go above that, that's what we call a positive amplitude. And if you go below that,
that's what we call a negative amplitude. So physically, from this point on is the actual
speaker pulsating outwards. And then when this comes back in, it's pulsating inwards.
So this is that your physical nature of how a speaker works. We've all looked at a speaker.
We've all seen the actual cone moving very, very fast.
And so this is the actual physical interpretation of looking at a waveform
and translating it into the actual physics of how a speaker works.
So if I play the same sample and I flip the phase on one of them using the utility,
the reason we're not hearing any sound is because the same information
is being sent to the speaker, but in conflicting terms. So instead of
this being pushed out, the exact same information is telling the speaker to push in.
So the speaker physically has no information to read and it's not going to move. It's like
pushing and pulling effect. It's like a tug of war. So that speaker cone will stay static.
So just to prove, if I now un-solo this, so one of them is muted, you should be able to hear the
sound. And if I take the utility off. Perfect. Right. So that is the theory into detuning
recess. And this is why you start to get, let me just get rid of these.
And this is why you start to get that kind of really familiar kind of LFO sound.
Cool. So let's try and develop this a bit further. I'm just going to
first make a quick melody for myself.
Obviously wants to go an octave lower.
And obviously I want to change serum, the voicing to mono and legato.
Cool. So do
something like this.
Cool. Let's just do these two bars for now. Cool. So now what I'm going to do
is I'm literally just going to jam away. I'm going to add lots of distortion. I'm going to
add some more modulation. What I'm trying to do is I'm trying to test the plugin to see what
kind of characteristics it's giving. If I feel attached to that sound, then I'll move on,
try and progress it even more. And I'll just keep going until I'm satisfied,
which could be a really long time. Cool. So let's firstly add a bit of distortion.
So in Ableton, what I like to do is I've got my collections here and I've got a little
few different favourites of kind of distortion. I've also set up a couple of
a couple of group settings, which I like to use. I've got this one called mega distort,
which is utilising lots of distortions.
Let's see what this sounds like.
Not bad. Maybe it's a bit over the top. So that's also, if you find something,
if you create a distortion rack, which you're happy with, just save it, create
cool little folders. You want to be able to create these kind of helpers for you,
which will set you up to be able to create something really cool.
So in this instance, I'm going to use a guitar rig vibes by Native Instruments,
very, very old guitar amp simulator, which I really love to use still.
Important thing to remember is to keep it in stereo. So you can just change the in left
and right. And what I like to do is I've set up a preset for myself called best amps.
And I've just labeled it zero one. So if I just flick on the preset name,
it will come to the top. So if I double click on that,
it's literally a collection of guitar amp heads, which I like to use.
I'm not going to use them all in one go, obviously, but it just gives me,
it just sets me up. So what I can do now is something like this,
just flick through whatever I like the sound of. So that's got something cool about it.
It's very loud.
Cool. So we might be able to use a combination of the both.
That could be cool.
Let's try another one. Just see what happens. You never know.
That's pretty cool.
It's actually funny because I don't think I've ever made a bass sound with this many
amps activated. But it sounds cool. It has some kind of character and it sounds like it's
really being pushed. What I'm hearing at the moment is the high end is still a bit boring.
There's not enough modulation in there, but I'm going to go back and amend that in a second.
I just wanted to quickly show you one thing on these cabinet overheads. So
if I, if you press this X, they kind of fold out and you've got some settings here,
which you can play with. There's also another setting if you press this little arrow here
and there's a stereo button here. So if you want to make
a bass sound, so if you want to make stereo basses, it's really crucial that this is
checked. And I've got them already checked on each, each individual cabinet. Again,
this is why it's so nice just to have that set up. See how quickly I just put that together
in a couple of minutes. If I wasn't talking, that would have been 30 seconds and already
already been moving on to my next interesting, next interesting path to creating,
developing this sound basically. So yeah, get yourself set up.
Cool. So let's move on. I might try and add something to bring out the high a little bit.
I'm also obviously working on headphones now, and that's not something I use a lot for making
basses. I like to kind of have the, I like to kind of make them in my room with my
monitors. I'm in actually in a Trita studio, so it's really nice for making bass sounds.
Cool. So let's go back to my distortion. Erosion would be cool.
This is an Ableton filter. It's kind of got a white noise.
Cool. So that kind of gives it a really
like really kind of peaky.
Just brings a bit of crunch to the top end. Cool. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to go
now go back in Serum and start trying to add some different kind of filtering.
One thing I like to use is a band pass. So let's see what that sounds like.
This can become messy very quickly.
That tone is very cool.
So whenever I hear something cool, I make a render of it. That's kind of my my my the thing
I like to do. What it will do it will kind of you'll literally create this huge sample library
of kind of one shot sounds. And they're fantastic if you want to write a tune quickly.
The only problem is that because you're it's quite destructive, you're going to have to
because you're it's quite destructive because you're creating an audio file.
There's no way to kind of get it back. But I'm quite happy dealing with that way.
You can save the patches, but sometimes I'll make literally like 50 or
different audio files of the bass sound. And having 50 patches, I don't think is
very productive. I think things will get messy very quickly. Cool. So let's make a quick
render. I might just have one note.
I might be able to use that for something cool later. Cool edit, something like that.
Really cool tone. So we just leave that there and then we'll go back and move this.
Okay, so why is that? I quite like that. That's sounding quite cool and interesting,
very messy, very messy. But there's some really cool tones to it. And I think it's
good to try and understand why that tone is being introduced. Literally all I'm doing
is sending a big peak on the actual spectrum. So I'm literally doing this.
So I'm going to put it before the distortion.
I'm literally doing something like that. The bandpass filter sounds way better.
Actually, so maybe we can automate this, but I have a feeling it might be a bit too much.
That might be quite interesting in like an edit in a tune.
Yeah, that might be quite cool. Let's render that one.
Okay, try. Let's try something else.
I just want to try and add some stereo imaging to it there.
So in this particular stage of just jamming away and making basses,
I'm not really too bothered if I've got stereo sub or any kind of or I'm breaking any
any crazy rules during bass production rules, because I know I'll probably have to fix that
later. Really, that kind of comes with knowledge. And the more you produce and the
more you kind of understand the physics of music and sound, you'll be able to kind of
fix things later. Or sometimes I'll just have a really stereo sub. I mean, nowadays,
it is possible. The club sound systems are getting better, etc. So and we're obviously
not pressing on vinyl that much anymore. So we can be a bit more creative.
Let's try a bit of FM. So FM from B.
That could be cool in the gym.
I could probably use this.
Some reason it's gone a little bit static, the sound it's lost the the movement.
And what I'm going to do is I really like that setting and it's working. The harmonics are
working well. If you look at the spectrum analyzer here, I'm just going to put a macro
on this. A really easy way to not screw things up too much is to put a macro on something and
then put it to zero. So you just leave it there. I know it's sounding cool there. I
don't want to tweak it. So if you look on the spectrum analyzer, you can see it's like
almost a very steady, like a steady slope. And then when we change this,
getting this huge peak, which I quite like. Let's see if we can develop this a bit more.
Let's see if we can get some movement back into it. So we might be able to use an LFO.
Let's see.
Let's use just a low pass. So I'm just going to assign LFO 1 to the cutoff.
It's sounding very dubstepy.
Let's slow this down.
That's not bad. I think I might be able to use this sound in a whole tune.
So when I get to this stage, I'm like, okay, that sounds cool. I can literally picture,
I can picture this being in a tune, like before I drop, really big and loud, then
suck it into something a bit more deep, maybe. So I'm already starting to paint a kind of picture
in my head of where I can go with the sounds. And when I'm doing that, you've got two options.
You can either go ahead and do it straight away, or the second thing is just that thought
process of being able to hear it already in a tune means that it probably will work in a tune.
So save the preset. So I'm going to make a little folder for myself.
I haven't prepared this and there's a reason, as I said before, because I want to show you
this whole process of how I go about doing this. So I'm going to make a new little
folder for myself. I'm going to call it bass sounds master class
00. So it goes at the top. And you can see here, I've got a whole selection of
kind of interesting things I've made and saved, which I can use sometime. So let's have a quick
quick look at the waveform. It's so cool.
It's like being in the sea or something. Yeah. So basically this is just a massive peak,
which is being swept, but creating a lot of interest.
Let's listen to without the distortion, which is quite funny.
So cheesy.
So yeah, obviously way over the top, but that's fine for now. Cool. So I'm going to mute this
and save it. And then what I'll do is I will do exactly the same process again.
So again, I'm going to get serum in. It's very tempting just to duplicate
this sound, which I just made. But you literally, what I find with myself is I literally just make
the same sound over and over and over and over again, which is fine. If you're trying to
achieve this one sound and you really want to nail it, then that's fine. But in this instance,
I'm literally just creating a massive palette of sounds for me to utilize when I go and write
the tune. Right. So let's go through this same process. I'll take this one. I think
I'm just making a quick melody.
And while the melody is running, I'll just make the sound. So again, two saw waves distortion,
two saw waves detuning.
Take the round above.
Sounding very underwhelming.
Cool. That's really got a question and answer feel to it, that melody.
I can hear it's going to change after that. It's suggesting something to me, that melody,
which is good. Okay, so now I'm going to try and turn this into a big bad reason.
So again, I'm going to go into my distortion. Let's try something else this time.
Let's try some trash.
See what this is.
Okay, so this is just about trying to find something.
Okay, I'm not liking any of those. So get rid of you. Let's try AmpliTube.
AmpliTube again is a guitar emulator.
It's giving me a cooler sound.
Again, I want more distortion though.
Just going to notice I haven't got that many, I haven't got loads of distortions on here.
Okay, adding a little bit more. Let's add a wave shaper.
Let's try square mode instead. Wave shapers are great tools,
great easy tools for you to get quick sounds with.
And what I like about the melder stuff is it's got a random button.
So what I'm just checking here, I'm just checking to see how much it changes as I turn it down.
You have to remember with things like distortion, how distortion works is it basically takes the
harmonics, the sound that's being fed into it and distributes harmonics based on that harmonic
which is being fed into it. That was a mouthful. So just by turning down the
volume sometimes it makes a massive difference. For example, if I cut the bass out of this,
watch how the sound changes.
This is huge, huge kind of golf in sound which is really interesting.
If you can control it, it's great. But this actually gave me an idea doing this.
I really like that peak in some places. And serum has a pretty cool function.
You can use the actual note as automation. So if I put this on the frequency,
basically, this is basically tuning to whatever MIDI note is playing.
So if I move this up now,
as you can see, I've actually put it out of tune. So it's making a kind of
harmonic which is not connected to the fundamental. So this is playing an F at the start
and let's have a look on our spectrum analyzer.
Which I quite like the sound of. I'm not sure what the release is doing.
I think just because it's destroyed so much that it's literally blowing up the whole tail,
I think. So that top one's a bit too much. Where was that?
That's not bad.
You might be able to use one of those somewhere. Just somewhere.
The release distortion is way over the top. Let's see if we can find what that is.
Let's see what happens if instead of me pressing stop, if we just let it play out.
Okay, cool. So that's okay. I think that's a little bug in serum. Actually,
whenever you press stop, I think you can probably hear me pressing space bar.
It kind of goes to like zero hertz or whatever that is. Very low frequency.
But I think in the tune we'll be okay because
it's okay. Good.
Cool. I definitely think we can use that for something. I'm going to save this as well.
I just remembered I didn't even save my other patch so I'll do that as well.
Cool. So that wasn't your typical reese but I started off doing that process and I just
kind of followed my instinct and followed what I was hearing in my ear. It's very important
to kind of, it's very important to trust your instinct and trust your ear with these things.
Everyone has their own preference and if everyone just does the same thing,
then we'll all literally sound the same and in drum bass it's already saturated enough so
I would encourage everyone to really try and develop their own sound and this is a perfect
way to do that. Using old techniques, following your instinct, putting your own twist
on it. Cool. So let's give these a save. So I'll go to my user library. I'm sure everyone
or every door has kind of this option.
So 001, 002. Right. So they are ready to go now. What happened there?
Okay for some reason it's overwriting it which is a bit weird.
Okay I'm not sure why it's doing that but I'll fix it in a bit.
So yeah let's move on. Another thing I like to do in my tunes is
have low-passed reeses in the intro. Let me load up serum again.
So one of the things that I like in drum bass is very melodic intros
and I love to have these kind of low-pass reeses doing a lot of the kind of moody,
very moody bassy work of the tune. So I'm just going to show you something along those lines.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to put a kind of pad in here just to kind of set the scene.
I just want to try and make it clear, make my idea clear. So let's just take something random.
Let's look for something a bit more melodic.
Cool that will do. So I know it's D sharp so I'm just going to take a little low end out of this as well because
cool. Alright so I'm going to mute that for a second. I forgot my little clip.
So low-pass reese, no it's a D sharp so let's start on that.
I'm just going to quickly get the reese up and then I'll make a melody.
I'm just going to punch that in for now.
Right let's go.
So again I'm going to turn the random off, low-pass.
So you can get the idea right that it's very moody.
How quickly was that? I mean I love, I love making reeses like this because you can get results very
quickly. Cool so let's go back to our old, the old and faithful.
I think I'm going to do the low-pass after.
Cool.
Probably want to go to the octave as well.
And I'm just going to extend them so they're legato.
Obviously need to do that in serum as well.
Right so now I'm going to control this with an LFO.
I'm going to use LFO tool. There's lots of different options you can use.
Wrong channel.
Right so let's set this up low-pass 24.
Lots of clicking though so maybe smooth that out.
Probably want to take this off as well.
So now I can just automate this. So I'm going to set my rate to, normally I would actually
physically draw the automation in but just for this example let's
so I want to go all the way down.
Oh big part and this is actually controlling the volume. Let me fix that.
Cool I'm gonna put a little bit more movement in there I think.
Cool now let's add a little bit of reverb.
I'm just going to use the vintage reverb. I'm just going to use a very crude.
Sounds cool.
Don't like that reverb. Let's see.
I'm not sure I like the gated style. Let's try some.
Cool that's a bit better. I'm going to put a bit of low cut on this.
Right let's see what it sounds like with my little clip.
So let me change the melody to fit. Just to give you an example.
What note is that? G sharp.
So something along these lines I'm trying to achieve. Give a really really moody intro.
What I would do when I'm in the tune, I would actually physically draw the automation in.
Like I said because I'm not sure this is great.
Great that's fitting perfectly.
Cool so that is the introduction for these style of recess.
Now I'm going to take a little break which is very very important with bass sounds in
my opinion or with most sounds. So I'm going to take a little five minute break.
Get some fresh air and then come back in and make some more bass sounds.
So I'll see you in a sec.
So I took a little break. Back at it again. Ready to go.
One of the reasons I like taking a break every hour, every couple of hours completely
up to you, is I just started to think about kind of the process I was just doing.
When I was thinking about the basses I just made I was thinking hey I could turn this into
something a bit different. So what I wanted to do is I wanted to kind of make a reesee type
of sound but with lots of modulation in it. Like lots of sounds you would hear in the kind
of neuro type of tunes or something with a lot of movement. So I'm going to do kind of the
same process before but this time I want to talk about wave tables instead of using saw
waves. So I'm going to load up a serum again. I'm going to put a little melody in there.
Let's just see what we can build.
Okay cool. So again mono legato.
Cool. So now the first thing I want to do is use some different wave tables and for the sake of
this video I want to show you how quickly you can get a very cool sound by just using the stock
wave tables. So there's a couple I like. Most of them are pretty good. This one's just jumped
out to me now MB triangle in brackets metal. Not sure what that means but
so the cool thing with using the stock wave tables and I will talk about making your own
wave tables in a second but the cool thing with using the stock wave tables is
you can create a very quick modulating sound by just automating the wave table position
and as I slowly move this you can see the wave table starts changing.
So let me show you if I load up my EQ and what I'm going to do is
slow I'm going to play this and slowly slowly change the wave table.
So if you just look at this frequency spectrum analyzer here
you can see the the harmonics are changing and that's
creating a very interesting sound to my ear so we're going to roll with something like this
I haven't really got an idea in my head of what sound I want to make
so I'm just going to keep adding until I'm satisfied basically
so that's cool but it's very standard I want to try and
let's try
that's pretty cool
so my goal here is just to literally make this sound as interesting as I can
so what I'm going to do is I'm going to FM oscillator A
from B
let's see what if we put the same LFO see what
not bad
again I want to turn these random off which I forgot and the sound might completely change it
nope we're good
also I think I want to actually go an octave down
um I really like the tone of
I really like the tone of that sound but there's no sub in it
what can we do about that just add the sub oscillator
so obviously we want to go one octave below oscillator
so what we can do now is maybe add just an LFO to the level of this
I'm going to use the same rate which is half a bar
okay I'm going to turn it off as well so it doesn't re-trigger every time
let's see if we add a little bit of unison to this
so you can see it's not sound very detuning
very interesting
cool so let's add some distortion to it now
it already sounds quite harmonically rich so
maybe a guitar rig might be a little bit too much but let's see where we get to
yep way over the top
okay okay so you can already tell that's going to be way too much and this is where
knowing your plugins and what they're capable of comes in handy I know Isotope Trash is not
going to recreate that same level of distortion it's going to be a lot milder and tamer so
I'll go for that let's see how they sound
the dents are certainly quite cool let's see how far we can push it
I want to get rid of that click as well
that's also kind of cool it's not exactly what I wanted it to do but it's
okay I'm not sure where the click's coming from yet but I'll kind of try and un-hear it for now
and come back to it later cool so let's add some filtering to it and we're going to do that
pre-distortion I'm going to try let's try some random random filters
I think the click is coming from Isotope Trash
I think the click is coming from Isotope Trash
cool so let's put a little bit of automation on this
way too fast
and I've obviously lost the whole sound here so what I want to do is take the mix down
just a little bit of
a little bit of movement which is cool
so let's add some serum OTT compression I'm sure everyone's heard of OTT it's well
well talked about well talked about compression style
the problem with OTT is that or one it's not necessarily a problem the the fact OTT is it
limits and compresses so hard that it will actually rebalance the the harmonic content
of your tune and to get things loud normally the first thing that's compromised is bass
because that's normally loudest part of the frequency so it's eating up all your headroom
so as you can see lost all the bass
so I'm going to try and do this a different way
anyway let's just
cool quite like that effect but I only like it in some places so again I'll put a little bit of
automation or I'll put a little bit of LFO on it
let's go all the way down see what happens
I don't think that sounds great so I'm going to dump that
that that first stab like that I could probably use that in the
the tail of it doesn't sound great to me
so let's try a few more different processing techniques I've also got this section here
called modulation with lots of different like flangers and choruses that I like to use
let's try a chorus see what that sounds like classic chorus sound
so making lots and lots of interesting detail in the in the stereo field as you can see
so say say I wanted to create um this bass sound with a very um
very wide sound which is caused by the chorus but
problem with the chorus it's going to kind of phase the low end
which won't always work in your favor so what we can do is I can literally put this in a group
and duplicate the sound so that's original just name this
if I could spell I'm going to call this chorus
I'm going to take a bit of low end out of this as well this might change the phase though
so I have to be very careful here
so
sounds a little bit distorty not great but not terrible either
so what I wanted to do here is try and marry these sounds together
I'm wondering if we just take the low
it's not sounding great to me
so I'm going to leave that for now um let's see what more modulation will do
vocoder works sometimes good but it's also probably way over the top so let's double check
yep I'm just going to keep it easy and have four bands
so
do get quite nice texture in that top end
so
so I'm just revisiting serum now see if I can improve anything here
so maybe something like this would work for me in tune
has it got a long release on it yeah let's cut
cool that's not bad
okay maybe I want to go a little bit higher with the FM
cool so that's sounds a lot more interesting to me
I could definitely use that in a tune
cool not bad okay what I'm going to do is I'm going to save this leave this
and this time I'm going to save all my presets after the session I want to move on I want to
try and create something more interesting again so I'm going to open serum again I'm going to
choose a different wavetable this time let's have a look in the digital
cool there's one cool distort dropper I think yeah distort bass dropper which is
has a very interesting tone to it
not like that it doesn't
have
so yeah this sounds very familiar to me I'm sure lots lots oops
I'm sure lots of people have used this wavetable in tunes
I mean even that could work in a tune again I'm going to turn random off
okay let's make
let's try and make a
cool so let's work with this modulation
let's try some dotted should we
try the other way around maybe
oh I liked it
so
just trying to look for something for some reason serum has decided to stop working
let's open and close it again okay cool let's dump that and start again
okay I think serum may have a problem
it doesn't look promising which I've never seen before so
cool so let's go to digital again
let's go to my dotted which was quite cool
I extended that
cool I just like it like this actually cool so let's start adding some saturation and see where
we get let's try um some um effects from serum this time so let's open up the distortion
as you can see all the all the detail in the top end is lost now pushed it way too hard
so
okay maybe we could automate this as well because it's because it's destroying
okay I think it's a bit too static for me now
so let's try something else
so
what sure is
this sounds cool
this could work actually so if we automate this into a very slow pan like I was just
that's cool okay so this is by adding these small things what you're doing is you're
developing the sound over a longer period so if that bass is playing for one whole bar
it's not just literally the same sound being triggered going no no no no no
you know there's a lot more variation in the sound
cool so now we need a bit of top end in there because sounding very plain
as I mentioned before the compressor is actually a cool tool for that
the top end is very dirty though
cool and I'm not sure we'll be able to fix that let's see this also sounds quite cool like this
actually I mean if if I was if I wanted to work on a kind of deep deep techy tune
this would be absolutely perfect
for example I can already see in the tune and then coming to a bar
just a little kind of automation there so I might save this one
let's see let's just see what it sounds like
let's extend this loop a bit more
so
kind of cool
cool
so
cool let's try an FM let's see if we're gonna add even more character
don't wanna do it from the noise
so
so what I could do is I'm not sure I would use this in a tune like that but it definitely
made my ears prick and that's exciting so I'm gonna give myself an option remember I'm gonna
save this patch and when I'm working on a tune I'll probably dump this in dump this preset
in somewhere and I want to be able to work quickly when I'm working in the tune I don't
want to be fiddling things fiddling around and creating sounds too long I'm going to get
the idea down get a solid idea and then be able to develop it from there so I'm gonna
set up a macro for this for the FM from B and also the actual level because I was liking
the sound of that so when I'm in the tune I'll be able to
maybe let's take this an octave down
and I probably also want to turn the random off both I will keep forgetting that
so
okay there's lots of interesting detail going in there right let's add a bit of
distortion just to try and blow the sound up a bit
bit too much
cool let's add some more distortion I want to try and bring this top end out a bit more I
know I've taken it down before but let's have a look so erosion is good for that
let's open an EQ and see if we can just boost it that way
let's do it before the erosion
not bad
let's try and add some filtering to it let's try something a bit random
crazy alien noise
could be cool
okay let's see what else let's add another filter
let's do this in effects I might come back to that reverb filter in a sec it sounded
had some nice things to it let's see if we can use a screen
I'm going to do this before the distortion
so I'm just going to flick through the filters see if we can
do this
Cool, I think I made it sound worse.
Cool, so I don't think I'm improving it that much by adding filtering.
So I could do a couple of things.
Typically if I was working in the studio I would probably spend about two hours on this sound if I thought it had potential.
And it deserved that amount of time.
Otherwise I would just stop now, save it and move on to the next one.
So let's give that a go.
Right, so I'm going to load up a new Serum.
Let's try a different wavetable this time.
Let's try this here.
Should I make a quick melody?
Cool, so again follow the same patterns as before.
Cool, hitting in the right frequencies.
Cool.
Cool, let's try and add some distortion.
I'm going to try my go-to guitar cabinet.
Guitar Rig, best amps.
Wow.
It's not bad.
Okay, I'm going to try and use a low-passed, sorry a band-passed filter here.
Because I want it...
Cool.
So let's go a bit crazy with that.
Let's put it back to one bar, shall we?
Not bad.
Let's try that.
Okay, I want to turn my...
There we go, stereo.
Okay, what do I need to do to this sound to make it sound way more interesting?
Let's try the compressor again.
How does that react?
Bit over the top again.
Cool, let's try some EQ, some automation.
Too much, let's try the other way.
Dipping.
Let's try and do that with a filter instead.
I like that ending.
So I feel it needs a bit more high or something.
Oops.
Okay, let's open this one.
Cool.
Just wanted to quickly flick between them to see if I was missing something.
Okay, let's try a bit of modulation stuff.
So let's try the Coder again.
Ouch.
Apologies.
It's a crazy sound actually, isn't it?
Some sound effect.
It's adding some kind of strange harmonics to the high end.
Which I'm not sure if I like yet.
Let's try FMing this again.
FM from B.
Let's just try a sine wave instead.
Cool.
Cool, no that doesn't sound great.
Sounds like elephant.
That might sound cool in some.
In some way though, so I would probably render this off.
Or maybe I'm just hearing it.
Okay, cool, that sounds a bit better.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to put this down and I'm going to add some extra harmonics to it.
I'm going to cover this table edit in the next section.
Just trying to add some more harmonics.
Cool.
Cool, not bad.
Let's see if we can calm it down a bit more.
Cool, so something like this.
Cool, something like that would work cool I think.
Now there's a couple of things we can do.
We can literally just press record and go shh, shh, shh like that.
So let's give that a go or maybe it's even easier to just draw it in.
See how we go with that.
Okay, number six.
Okay, let's put that back.
Cool.
Oops, too much.
Not bad.
Might be a couple of cool interesting notes I could use in there.
Like this one.
Really don't like that big peak at the end.
It makes it sound very cheesy.
Cool.
Okay, cool.
So then after that we move on to the next one.
But what I'm going to do now is I'm going to again take a little break.
Come back, have a listen to these, save all the patches offline.
And then what I'm going to do is I'm going to spend a couple of minutes finding a few of my favourite bass lines from different artists or maybe my own tunes.
And then I'm going to show you how you can almost recreate the same tone of that bass line in Serum by using the harmonic section, the table edit.
Cool, so see you in a second.
