Oh
So there I am.
My webcam starts in 3, 2, 1.
Start.
I'm a little depressed.
The webcam starts in 3, 2, 1.
It's taking a while.
The webcam starts in 3, 2, 1.
The Q-Base starts in 3, 2, 1.
Click.
That's something.
So hello and welcome to another track inside with Modus and myself in Matthews.
This time we look at the song Seneth with Flo Anastasia from Canada, from Toronto.
Let's jump right in.
As you can see this thing was written in Q-Base.
I had like 3 individual projects for this song.
One is this main Q-Base project where most of the magic happens.
Then there's one mixing project for the vocal.
Because as I'll show later, maybe now, the vocal stem I got in here is pretty much all processed already so it can save some CPU.
And the third project is the musical writing project which we'll also have a look at.
But let's start with this.
First up the drums.
As per usual I always sort of categorize the sounds I'm making.
Bass drum, snare drum, hi-hat, some breaks I used, some extra ultrasounds and some intro synth percussions.
Let's jump right in.
As you can hear.
Seneth's verse is complemented by this synth percussion loop here that is sort of playing the melody as the bass line does.
And sort of to give the vocal like a fundamental backend if you like.
There comes a little break here.
Pretty standard stuff, filtered stuff.
Some hi-hats there, kick build to increase the tension or whatever.
And then it drops.
What's maybe a bit special here is that the kick groove is a bit off.
You can tell it's a bit shifted to the right relative to the time.
And there's six kicks in one bar which is quite a lot.
I think usually it's like four or three.
And what's also maybe special is that none of the kicks actually have a lot of bass with them.
Not a lot of sub, all of them end in sort of 60Hz, 70Hz of range.
And only one kick here has some more low end to it just because of how the groove came together.
As you can see here.
It's like an off kick that sort of plays against the groove.
So that had a bit more space to get more low end.
Snare pretty standard.
Sign fundamental with a couple of layers.
As you can hear those are the main characteristic ones.
Which are bounces from the actual snare which was created here.
Which is still in there for the intro.
Which had a different low end, a different fundamental which was higher.
And as I went with the project I felt like pulling the fundamental frequency lower down.
Closer to where the bass is.
It even makes the space more narrow and more claustrophobic.
Which I really liked with this song.
Really intense in the low mids.
That's how the snare came together.
Second 16 again is just a render of those guys.
Just really shortened with an audio file here.
But same top line here, top end here.
And then it goes back into the original groove.
Original snare, sorry.
Hi-hats really reduced actually.
If you look at this in the first bar there's only one.
Over two bars there's only one hi-hat which is quite funny.
Even though the song is really busy there's not a lot of hi-hats there.
And they just evolve as the song goes.
More stuff coming in.
Until they in the second 16 release in this shaker loop here.
That sort of transforms into just a noise at the end of the bar.
And it just disappears really.
And then we're coming back third 16 with a shaker vibe.
A little amen break here.
And that's that really.
So the drums are really simple I'd say.
It's all about just trying to figure out which hits you need.
I could have also dropped with a lot of hi-hats.
But it's all about the contrast of this full section here.
It's really dense over the top almost.
And then it sort of falls into this void almost.
Which was the most essential part for me about this song.
Why I sort of finished it and why I like it.
So what I'm trying to say is that the drop doesn't always have to be full on.
Top band, hi-hat, overhead, this and that.
Sometimes simplicity is the way to go.
Especially if the rest of the song is quite dense.
The bass section is spread up into four sections.
Which is the melody section, the intro and outro.
Which is I think it's a diva.
That plays the same bass notes as the progression does.
Which I will get into when we look at the musical project of this project.
The outro stuff consists of low-pass trees back in.
Just really little effects there, extra layers.
Nothing too special here.
The second one here, this is actually the main groove.
And it looks a bit off-putting.
A lot of the sounds are weirdly created by some busses and send effects and stuff.
It's one of those ones where you make a song.
And then you go back in and come back around.
Add some further stuff and shit.
I don't want to go too far into it because it's fucking ridiculous.
And you see this guy doesn't even output correctly.
It creates all the send effects because I rendered the actual sound.
But I needed the processing and the send effects that are still going.
Like send effects and tight end mids and all this shit is still playing.
Which is in the send section.
Those guys are created by the thrift that's actually outputted to nowhere.
Because I think at some point it was so CPU heavy that I had to render this guy here.
So this is actually the main sound put into audio already.
This section is not to be taken so seriously.
Like I said, I went back and forth with this project.
Came back in, didn't really mind the routing I did because I just wanted to vibe with it.
It's a bit of a mess.
But it was a bit of a mission to get right.
3rd 16 has this little square update here.
Which I also had to put into audio because it was bugging a little bit.
I don't know why.
You see the square shifting FM wise but also delay is being added to it.
And those guys are also sending into the same bus as the OG riff does.
But you guys who have been following me know my routing is sometimes a bit out there.
But at the end of the day I think it was okay.
And we got there in the end.
2nd 16 is just an 808 with some bass emphasis parts there.
And the outro, similar stuff, just 808 additions.
Nothing too crazy.
Let's have a quick look into the effects.
Which is a lot of noises and rises and stuff.
Pretty standard.
The only thing here maybe to mention is I made a whole mod section.
Which is also playing the same rhythm as the riff does.
But with only noises, bleeps and squares and whatever.
Just to create emphasis on the same rhythm as the riff does.
So if you play that together it should make sense.
And then some draw-ons.
To keep the tension going over the 2nd 16.
The theme, that was actually the main idea of the song after I made the first draft groove-wise.
I was like this song doesn't have a lot of melodies.
It's just sound design pieces put together.
So I felt like let's try some melodies on top of that.
And that was made with this guy with the Moog Sub 37.
So you can hear this guy is entirely mono.
Straight down the middle I think.
Let me just double check.
I can open this guy.
Yeah, almost. I think there's some processing.
Like a send reverb and stuff.
And then the main melody.
It's just some notes I played with the Moog that I really liked.
And then I paired those with some Serum.
Really controlled additions for left and right business.
As you can see.
And that essentially created the main theme of the song in the beginning.
That was the thing that made the song go from a sound design project into sort of a drop project.
That you can actually play out and that's sort of exciting.
And after I had that I still felt like there's not a lot of music in this song.
And that's when I really dove back into the tune.
And tried to create some live music around the sound design of this theme.
Which is here. It's only just the bounces.
But maybe let's use this point to actually go into the music project of this project.
To have a look at how the music came together.
And then we'll look at the vocal project as well.
Cool.
So let's cut here and I'll be back with the writing scoring project.
Okay, so this is the writing slash scoring project of Zenith.
And it is basically two melodies.
One melody I wrote before I went on tour in April 2020.
Sorry, 2022. Fuck.
And the second one I wrote during the tour.
And it was funny.
I knew the key and the scale of the song.
I just wrote two different melodies.
And when I came back from tour I put them together.
And they actually worked nicely.
So the whole song plays around this AB environment.
Which is this melody.
Nice sawtooth melody. Horrible.
So that was the first melody I wrote.
And then the second melody I wrote on tour on my laptop.
Which goes like this.
And then I put this into context.
Into some classical instruments.
Because I always wanted to do this.
We did it with No Tomorrow.
But Marks and Runner did a lot of the sound design.
In terms of the orchestral parts for that song.
So I always wanted to try that myself.
And that was my first attempt to do so.
So the melodies we just heard.
This phrase would be like the A section.
And this is the B section.
And Anna wrote vocals.
Which works on the B section.
But also on this third musical bit.
Which is if you remember from the previous project.
Which is this Moog theme.
And that was the difficulty to combine those three writings into one song.
And it worked out in the end.
So as you see the intro is very orchestral or classical.
With this piano sort of doing the main work here.
But combined with this tiny, subtle synth loop.
That has some MP in there as well.
Which is quite nice.
And then we go into the switch.
Into the B section already.
Where the whole emotion switches.
And I found it just super epic.
To sort of recreate the melody with orchestral pieces.
It was super much fun to do so.
Like I said earlier.
In the beginning there was this sound design phase.
Then there was this phase of trying to find a drop.
Like a theme.
Like a short theme that you can bring back in the song.
And then to finish it off.
I really felt like the whole thing could benefit from the music.
And those three elements at the end of the day.
Then came together into this writing piece.
So as you know in the second 16 there's this 808 coming back in.
And Anna's vocal coming back in.
So in this section.
It was a bit of finding the middle ground between those three progressions here.
To be able to sort of resolve.
In a melody that's complementing the MOOC theme.
Which I was talking about earlier.
It was a bit tricky.
But we got there in the end.
And I'm super happy how it sounded.
And my favorite part of the song is actually this little woodwind section in the breakdown.
Because I'm a sucker for some flutes and stuff.
I love this stuff.
I've never done it before.
So playing with expressions of flutes.
And all the different layers of them.
It's just so fucking...
I just love those instruments.
Some oboes in there.
Some flutes in there.
And they just come together so nicely.
Sonically flutes are just so cool.
All the woodwind section is so amazing.
Let me just play this by itself.
Just love this section.
And again.
This is the B section I was talking about.
Even though it sounds horrible.
You can just play this over the top.
It will work.
You see?
And that was so interesting to me.
How a little MIDI clip or a sawtooth MIDI loop idea.
Can really translate later into an epic melody.
And then it goes into the super emotional section here.
Which is complemented by a little reese there.
Let me just play all the elements.
And it's so funny when you think about all those elements playing together.
And coming together.
And really creating this full spectrum of sound.
I really enjoyed working on this musical section.
I hope you enjoyed that.
And let's maybe have a quick look into the vocal processing part of the song as well.
Because there was also some work.
So let's cut here and jump into the vocal mix project.
So this is the vocal project.
Which was quite tricky to get right.
So you have to imagine I sent Anastasia the instrumental idea.
And then we were going back and forth with the vocals she was writing.
How we can implement it into the mix.
And how the song progresses further.
So at the end of the day it's just one stem here.
But every edit you see here is a syllable being changed.
Or a pop sound being removed.
Or another re-recording we had to do because I wasn't happy.
Or Anastasia wasn't happy.
So all the editing with Cubase is really really good I have to say.
For me that's why I still stick with Cubase.
Because it's just so flexible.
You can glue stuff together.
Crossfade stuff.
It's just super handy with that.
And you see there's so much editing going on just for this one vocal.
And at the end of the day you'll then land here.
And that was the reason why I wanted to extract it from the actual Cubase project.
Because if you imagine having all the sound design parts there.
And then you have to focus on the vocal mix as well.
There's so many things that can distract you.
And not focus you on what's in front of you.
So I completely mixed the vocal in relation to the musical project.
Which I still have sort of online here.
The basic main sounds are still working here.
So I had an idea where I was mixing towards to.
But yeah, sometimes it really helps having different sessions for different parts of the song.
Maybe some interesting pointers for you as well in terms of how I process my vocals.
You see just a bit of pre-compression here.
So you see it's gain reduction by minus 3, minus 4 dB.
Just to get the levels on the same level.
And then there's a bit of processing here.
You see actually those guys are unused as far as I can see.
So let's maybe have a listen at the verse here.
With and without processing.
Just making it louder.
But the essence is still there really.
So you can have a quick look.
A bit of mid-controlling.
Rolling off some stuff.
Boosting some stuff.
Master plate on the whole thing.
Give it some nice room.
Wave shaping it a little bit.
Then obviously de-essing it.
That's the good old...
Those of you who've worked with vocals know it's always like making it loud, de-essing it.
Making it loud again, de-essing it.
And that's what I did here like three times in a row.
You see shaping it, de-essing it, shaping it, EQing it.
In this case doing nothing.
Maybe it's like...
No, I was doing nothing.
Well done.
And another de-esser here.
But all of those values are really low.
It's not even minus 3 dB here.
It's very low.
And then limiting it and bussing it.
Not even bussing it.
This is the final buss here.
So all these send effects which is I think a tiny room or a tiny delay.
Yeah, tiny delay.
Is routed back into this.
Oh no, it's actually on the stereo output.
Okay, that's cool.
So this is the whole track delay.
So if you...
You see.
Just a little delay there.
So yeah, after stitching it together,
tweeting it the way I did,
I put like this stem as a render back into Cubase
into the main project where we jump to now
for a last final look how it all came together.
So yeah, see you in the other project again.
So, off some technical difficulties in my end here.
We are back at this master project
which we started with in the beginning.
And I just showed you how this vocal stem came together.
This is the main stem here.
So there's not a lot of processing necessary anymore on this one.
And you see, still there have been some stem effects
that have come together.
So there's not a lot of processing necessary anymore on this one.
And you see, still there have been some stitches here.
Like some syllables that I wanted to be the same
or, you know, interchanged.
I was still editing stuff here.
And creating other effects with this big vocal stem
we just saw previously.
And yeah, let's maybe have a quick listen
to the song one last time.
So like I said before, there's some effects still being created.
Like those guys here.
Which is the held note by Anna.
Which is really good, but obviously no one can...
I don't know if someone can hold this note for like 22 seconds
without having to breathe and stuff.
So it's like a little micro loop there.
That ends in this sort of resolving phrase.
And what I like about this is that this phrase here
is a different progression than it is in the second resolve.
And those were the last two changes we did with the song.
A big shout out to Tier Kahoot as well,
who is Anna's recording artist.
And he recorded the vocals with us.
A really good engineer, really good producer as well.
So big up you, dude, for recording this.
And thanks for going back in a couple of times
with stuff I wasn't happy with.
And yeah, I'm super happy about all the extra recordings we did.
For instance, Anna sent me a whole bunch of
freestyled ad-libs of stuff like this.
That's a bit odd, but...
You know, stuff like this, ad-libs.
So all those, I told her to do another two or three takes
with just ad-lib stuff.
And that actually made the outro really cool,
as you remember, like this interpretation here.
So it's different to this.
So this is very linear and very, I would almost say,
very German bass, very scientifically correct.
And this in the outro, where the whole beat is more like a jam.
Sorry, where the instrument is very vulnerable as well.
It makes so much sense for the vocal
to be also playing around more.
Which is, yeah, I found a really great moment there.
And then the spoken whisper thing.
That's cool.
And then the whole syncopation is differently,
like it lands later on this held note,
which is a really cool moment I think.
Like all those notes here, just ad-libs,
Anna did on top of stuff and I cut it together
to give it one last epic sort of let's go moment.
And that's that.
Thanks for tuning in.
This is Matthews featuring Flona Stasier, Seneth.
This tune is out on Modus.
Let's go!
